---
layout: post
title: Symbiosis literature reading collections
---
_**Review on Small RNA in Plant-Microbe interaction**_

[Small RNAs – Big Players in Plant-Microbe Interactions](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1931312819303658)

Plant small RNAs:
  * miRNA
  * siRNA: ta-siRNAs(trans-acting siRNAs); phasiRNAs (secondary phased siRNAs); nat-siRNAs (natural antisense transcripts-derived siRNAs); hc-siRNAs (heterochromatic siRNAs); lsiRNAs (long siRNAs)
 
miRNA/siRNA involved:
 * **miRNA393** in _Arabidopsis_ silence Auxin receptor to activate Pathogen-associated molecular pattern triggered immunity
 * **miR863-3p** silence both negative and positive regulators of plant immunity and ﬁne-tune the timing and amplitude of immune responses
 * **22-nt miRNAs** cleave target mRNAs to produce phasiRNAs, which targeted NLRs. Upon pathogen infection, both these miRNA and siRNA are downregulated, which lead to upregulation of NLRs.
  (nat-miR6019 in tobacco; miR482 and miR2118 intomato; miR472 in Arabidopsis)
  (some miRNA triggered siRNA also target PRRs: miR6021, miR6022, and miR6023 target a tomato gene encoding a transmembrane receptor-like protein)
  > Summary: expression of some NLR and PRR genes is tightly suppressed by 22 nt miRNAs and secondary phasiRNAs in absence of pathogens to avoid autoimmune responses and to save energy for plant growth.
  * Some NLR proteins such as SNC1 can repress transcription of miRNA and phasiRNA as well indicating a regulatory circuit
  * **hc-siRNA-mediated transcriptional silencing ((RdDM))** regulate the NLRs expression. 
  

_**Leaf imunity is also activated in response to root interaction with incompatible nitrogen fixing bacteria**_

[Glycerol-3-phosphate mediates rhizobia-induced systemic signaling in soybean](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-019-13318-8)

>The interaction with soild bacteria is not only limited to plant roots. Foliar immunity system is also involved. Compond synthesized in leaves is transport to root

>Glycerol-3-phosphate (G3P) is a well-known mobile regulator of systemic acquired resistance (SAR)

>G3P is needed for stran-scpecific exlcusion of non-desirable bacteria, and is associated with foliar pathogen imunity.

* Some rhizobia inject effector by T3SS to induce nodulation in soybean [(Okazaki et al, 2013)](https://www.pnas.org/content/110/42/17131.short), but the T3SS-dependent pathway is also genotype-specific. The exclusion of incompatible symbiotic bateria might be epalined by the G3P paper. 

**_T3SS will complement the NF-NFR symbiosis pathway, Soybean mutated on nfr genes can still form nodules using T3SS system, but t3ss nfr mutant won't form nodules_**
[Hijacking of leguminous nodulation signaling by the rhizobial type III secretion system](https://www.pnas.org/content/110/42/17131.long)


**_Nod genes is not necessary for legume symbiosis in some rhizobia_**

[Legumes Symbioses: Absence of Nod Genes in Photosynthetic Bradyrhizobia](https://science.sciencemag.org/content/316/5829/1307.long)

>In two symbiotic, photosynthetic, Bradyrhizobium strains, BTAi1 and ORS278, canonical nodABC genes and typical lipochitooligosaccharidic Nod factors are not required for symbiosis in some legumes.

>There is a possible alternative pathway, where a purine derivative may play a key role in triggering nodule formation

**_Is Nod Factors also required in intercellular invasion (including crack entry) symbiosis?_**

>In A. indica and A. sensitiva NFs are neither required for invasion of the roots nor for nodule primordia formation (Giraud et al., 2007).

>bradyrhizobia can nodulate Aeschynomene plants in two ways: one that depends on a functional T3SS and other NFs, and T3SS independent, which relies on a still unknown mechanism.(Okazaki et al., 2015)

>Sesbania rostrata, intercellular invasion of the roots depends on NFs to induce cell death for infection pocket formation (Capoen et al., 2010). 
> The colonization of the outer cortex depends on NFs but would be independent of calcium spiking. 
>There is a less stringent requirement for NF structures for inducing and infecting the nodule primordia.

>NFs are not necessary for invasion of Arachis hypogaea roots (Ibañez and Fabra, 2011).


>peanut nodulation can also be achieved by rhizobia lacking nod genes, but the nodulation seems to be vestigial and non-significant in natural conditions.

>Whether NF-independent nodulation of peanut depends on a functional rhizobial T3SS is still not known. And those determinants (‘entry key’) allowing NF-independent nodulation have not been identified.

* These results indicate that peanut have have NF-dependent and -independent systems. 
>In the NF- dependent program, these bacterial molecules are required for initiating the cellular divisions for nodule primordia development

* For NF dependent system, there are two possible models for NF preception:
>1. NFs are required for intracellular infection of the basal cortical cell that forms the nodule primordia
>2. rhizobia can become intracellular without NFs but that these NFs are required in order to reinitiate meristematic activity of the infected cell.

> NFR genes (NFR1 NFR5) in peanut have been identified (Ibáñez et al., 2015). But their epidermic or cortial localization has not been determined. 

* In our study, the NFR5 CRISPR knock out lead to non-nodulating phenotype (but not for NFR1), suggesting the NFR may play a lead function.

>an appropriate bacterial cell surface (rhizobial exopolysaccharides, EPS) is important for peanut intercellular infection.


**Peanut nodulation symbiosis**

Root hair is not required for peanut nodulation [(Maku et al., 2018)](https://www.scirp.org/html/4-2603784_86057.htm)

>Bradyrhizobia invaded the roots at epidermis, protoplasm of cortical cell, and cortical cells of the main root near the newly emerged lateral root in the absence of RoH.


